CHI 2015 Papers and Notes

Reviews of submission #1951: "ePort3DAr: Combining 3D Interactive Smart
Spaces and Mobile Computing for Construction Collaboration"

------------------------ Submission 1951, Review 4 ------------------------

Reviewer:           primary

Your Assessment of this Paper's Contribution to HCI


Overall Rating

   2.0 - Possibly Reject: The submission is weak and probably shouldn't be accepted, but there is some chance it should get in. 

Expertise

   4  (Expert )

The Review


The Meta-Review

   Reviewers liked the concept and the vision of this work, and R3
   appreciated the unique configurations, even if the authors are using
   known technology. 

   R2 and R3 point out that there is little novelty for the specific system
   or the proposed interaction techniques. 
   Authors also do not provide a clear motivation for their design decisions
   and R3, in particular, points to numerous related projects, directions
   and alternative configurations that are not discussed nor referenced. The
   authors would benefit from placing their interaction techniques and
   configurations in the context of a larger design space and in relation to
   previous work. Reviewers, for example, ask whether _actual_ AR could be a
   strong candidate for these scenarios. 

   Reviewers find that the user study description is unclear and that more
   information is needed on the baseline "blueprint" interface. Even so,
   reviewers point out that there are many different approaches that would
   be more appropriate to compare against, rather than a "book"?. 

   Reviewers also found the paper difficult to read and suggest careful
   proof reading by a native English speaker. 

   All in all, the scenarios explored are interesting, but given the lack of
   generalizable results (R1), and the unclear motivation for many of the
   design choices, this paper is unfortunately not mature for publication at
   CHI. 


------------------------ Submission 1951, Review 1 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external

Your Assessment of this Paper's Contribution to HCI

   The authors present a system that allows viewing building plans in
   multiple views and with multiple ways of interaction. Changes to the
   schematics are synced between users, e.g., allowing workers on site to
   propose an update to the shared construction plans which is accepted at
   an off-site office.

Overall Rating

   2.0 - Possibly Reject: The submission is weak and probably shouldn't be accepted, but there is some chance it should get in. 

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

The Review

   This paper essentially describes one specific system. Accordingly, much
   of the writing focuses on components, interactions, and scenario
   description. While the system is interesting, I was ultimately left
   wondering what the more general takeaway here is. It's not clear what
   others can learn from this specific case to inform their own system
   designs. While there is a study, I was left with many questions regarding
   it and at this point don't see some more general emergent effect. 

   I found this paper rather hard to read. The system description meanders
   and often repeats itself. The design choices sometimes feel arbitrary and
   the whole thing feels a bit thrown together. I was a bit put off by the
   terms used to describe this this system. The authors make multiple
   mentions of this being an AR system. However, there really is no AR part
   in this. There is a projection of 3D content on the wall. But this does
   in no way constitute augmented reality. The phone application also does
   not seem to have this functionality. I also don't get how this system is
   an "interactive 3D smart space". What's a "smart space" after all
   exactly? The system uses space for projection and tracks hands in the
   space. In my understanding, this doesn't yet make the space itself smart.
   The mobile setup in a way is space agnostic after all. Unfortunately, the
   paper, at times, reads a bit like a buzzword hodgepodge. 

   The authors did run a study to find out whether their system offers a
   more efficient way to complete common construction tasks. It is not clear
   what they compare themselves against though. The other condition is
   described as a "conventional 2D drawing based approach". I'm just not
   sure what this is exactly. It should be made very clear what the
   comparison is and how participants interacted in this case. It is also
   not described whether the study was between or within groups and whether
   there was any counterbalancing. From the "Test Plan" section it seems
   like participants always used one system first and then the other. It
   also reads as if participants received extensive instructions on the
   proposed system but no instructions on the comparison system before the
   start of the study. While we can assume that the participants as
   architecture students have some familiarity with blueprints, they
   probably don't have much hands-on experience of using them in-the-field
   (they're still students after all). I'm also curious how the tasks were
   timed. Some of them don't quite have a specific ending time. For example,
   the exploration task seems rather open ended and the discussion task
   times similarly depend highly on other factors. 

   I have some slight problems with the problem description of the paper.
   The authors state that architects "are using new computing technology to
   enhance creativity and aid in communication between stakeholders", yet
   construction engineers and people on site "might not be familiar with new
   technology". This and the following parts read very condescending to me.
   I don't subscribe to this view where engineers are inherently more
   backwards and unfriendly to technological progress than architects. As
   the study seems to have been run at an architecture school, this might
   explain the view described here. If there is an inherent difference in
   those two groups it would be helpful to provide a reference, otherwise
   this just comes of as prejudice. One could even argue that this system
   doesn't really strive for collaboration, but instead is designed for
   people in the field to provide data back to the architect who then can
   approve of this input. Regarding the input, I'm not sure dragging parts
   on a phone is a good way to handle changes. For blueprints to be updated
   with changes, wouldn't precise measurements be needed? If, e.g.,
   something went wrong with placing the door, I'm sure stakeholders would
   want more accurate information than a worker dragging it a bit to the
   side.

   Overall, I think this is an interesting system and certainly looking at
   blueprints can be more efficient in a projection than with blueprints
   (especially on larger sites). However, I don't quite see what general
   lesson is to be learnt here. But if this is just a description of one
   specific system, the value to others isn't as obvious. 


------------------------ Submission 1951, Review 2 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external

Your Assessment of this Paper's Contribution to HCI

   This paper presents the design, implementation, and evaluation of a
   prototype of a collaboration system, supporting hand-guestures, mobile
   phones, and projectors. 

   I feel that the prototype itself is not so exciting. It merely combines
   several well-known techniques. The interesting part of this paper could
   have been the experiment, but there are also problems. 

Overall Rating

   2.0 - Possibly Reject: The submission is weak and probably shouldn't be accepted, but there is some chance it should get in. 

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

The Review

   The paper spends 5.5 pages to motivate and describe the prototype and 2.5
   pages on the experiment. I think that most features of the prototype have
   already been published previsouly. So, basically, the focus should have
   been on the user study instead. 

   The user study is pretty basic. 5 tasks were done in succession (the
   order of tasks should have been randomized!). The elementary tasks such
   as viewing a 3D model (task 1) have been investigated in many experiments
   in the IEEE VR and IEEE 3DUI community (many citations to these
   communities are missing). The user study could have been more interesting
   if: 
   - Real workers were used (as Figure 1 seems to suggest) 
   - More complex and application-domain-specific tasks had been executed 

   In my view, the submission is overly verbose. Due to the small novelty, 5
   pages should have been enough. 


------------------------ Submission 1951, Review 3 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external

Your Assessment of this Paper's Contribution to HCI

   This paper contributes a system using multiple display and input devices
   to aid in collaborative construction management. The system uses a
   projector to create two ad-hoc displays in an ‘L’ configuration,
   along with a Leap Motion controller for spatial input, an Anoto
   (micro-dot pattern) pen for stylus input, and a smart phone for
   additional display and touch/accelerometer input. While each individual
   component and the core interactions in general are not significantly
   novel, the paper combines multiple devices into a unique combination of
   display / input modalities. Furthermore, the paper explores a domain
   specific application of construction management. Finally, the paper
   contributes a user study comparing their system to 2D blueprints (This
   wasn’t entirely clear to me. The paper states they compare to a ‘book
   of 2D blueprints approach’). Overall, it is an interesting system
   targeted to a domain that could benefit from on-site digital construction
   management solutions.

Overall Rating

   2.0 - Possibly Reject: The submission is weak and probably shouldn't be accepted, but there is some chance it should get in. 

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

The Review

   This work was an interesting read. The system combines known display and
   interaction techniques into a unique configuration and targets an
   interesting application domain. I see great value in such ad-hoc
   multimodal interactive systems. In fact a lot of the marketing effort for
   pico projectors featured architects / construction workers looking at
   blueprints at construction sites. There is obvious demand for intuitive
   ad-hoc interactive systems in this domain.

   While I see great value in the goal and the multimodal approach, I have
   some concerns that reduced my review score. Primarily, the multimodal
   system is interesting, but it not clear that it is the best solution for
   this domain. Why not just use a single projected display running a CAD
   program? Or why not use a mobile phone/tablet app? Or why not use
   augmented reality to preview the model deviations and changes?

   It seems that the user study compares the system to a ‘book of 2D
   blueprints’. It seems like a better comparison would be to a single
   laptop running CAD / SketchUp (or mentioned above...a single projected
   display running CAD/SketchUp). In the user study, I would imagine that
   the performance improvements of the system are probably largely due to
   the fact that the user is interacting with a digital interactive system
   (vs analog paper), and not because of the unique device configuration.
   Therefore, it is hard to extract any lessons learned or take-aways from
   the user study.

   The individual interaction techniques do not appear to be novel. There is
   a large body of research in spatial input for rotating / scaling 3d
   objects and for multi-scale navigation (pan+zoom). The most interesting
   and novel interactions involve querying the specific floor plan via
   spatial input and the touch interactions on the horizontal surface which
   control the vertical display. These interactions are particularly
   relevant given the new Sprout display by HP (http://sprout.hp.com/) which
   combines stylus input on a horizontal projected display with a
   traditional vertical monitor.

   As a personal opinion, it would be interesting to see the system
   implemented with a brighter short throw projector, e.g. InFocus IN126ST.
   What would these scenarios look like with a much larger (10 ft+) display
   for group collaboration / review? The current configuration could be
   easily approximated by two tablets.

   The paper should also address other work in AR for construction
   management (e.g. the work by Mani Golparvar's lab,
   http://scholar.google.com/scholar?hl=en&q=Mani+Golparvar).

   Finally, the paper suffers from some stylistic and language issues, which
   ultimately make the paper difficult to understand. In my opinion, the
   paper could be condescend by omitting some of the system implementation
   and focusing on the interaction techniques. Figure 2 is barely referenced
   and provides little value for its size, along with figures 3a, & 4. Also,
   the questions from the user study are included by reference only, which
   is inconvenient for understanding the user study.

   Overall, I think this is interesting work that is not yet ready for
   publication at CHI. I look forward to seeing this work published in the
   future as it is pursuing very interesting ideas with a unique device
   configuration.



